i'm going to commence this discussion  with a quotation from the younger  brother  of napoleon bonaparte this is an obscure  source  if you're not a personal friend of mine  you've probably never heard it mentioned  in a single conversation the napoleon  bonaparte had a younger brother  but on the other hand if you are one of  my personal friends you're probably  somewhat tired of hearing about your  partner brother or you might even be  tired you might be overly familiar with  this  particular quotation so i'm going to  start by reading this to you somewhat  modernized somewhat rephrasing it to  sound like natural english in the 21st  century and then i will read it to you  verbatim  i wanted to be fair in my criticism of  him  but the cheering of the crowd  made me more violently  excoriate and reproach him word by word  for the first time i experienced how  much the passions of those who listen  have power over those who speak  i'm quoting this at the start of this  video  because i think that professor arge  alexander or guy is a fascinating  example of a man who has been  utterly corrupted  by the adoration of the crowd that the  listeners have corrupted the message of  the speaker that the relationship of  master to pupil teacher to student  has been in a subtle way  perverted  i think it's tremendously important to  understand this  process  is  social media begins to devour  formal education  and as social media begins to devour  politics and activism of any kind more  and more of the relationships of  master to pupil shall we say that they  now exist here on youtube or on other  platforms through other media that  really are fundamentally the same as the  interface  so to read this exactly as it was  written in english it wasn't written in  french by napoleon's younger brother  quote i wished to keep fair with him but  the acclimations from the galleries  augmented in proportion to the violence  of my words  and for the first time i experienced how  much the passions of those who listen  have power over those who speak  the problem with  alexander or gay  is that he is telling you  precisely what you want to hear  i do not believe anyone  is peeing him i don't think there's any  mechanism  of corruption  other than precisely the one i just  described now  i'm making no claims i may there's no  innuendo here  about professor argy's sex life  i have known  many many professors  with phds  whose heads are turned  whose heart beats faster  for an attractive younger woman  just to pay attention to them  just to be interested in their research  just to be interested in hearing them  talk about their lives just to meet  in their office  with them  and i have known  some professors  where it is instead  the interest and sympathy of attractive  young men they're gay you know it's the  same dynamic playing out along a  different combination of  of genders  i have always found it  embarrassing when in the writings of  some self-styled great man  they boast about how many young people  these days  are getting turned on by their groovy  philosophy now  [Laughter]  i was scornfully mocking my own father  for this at several points in my  father's life but uh the final book my  father wrote and published to my eyes  there's some really embarrassing moments  this way i've seen it in many different  fields in many different disciplines  where the reality is someone spends  their life  toiling in obscurity not getting much  recognition or appreciation that was not  my father's problem by the way that was  not as exciting  unfortunately most people with phds  they toil on labor  in obscurity and then they really are  delighted they really are pleased  if one day an attractive young man or an  attractive young woman  just seems interested just seems  enthusiastic just seems to get it and  they may not realize  the extent to which the listening of the  crowd starts to shape the behavior and  the message of the speaker  they may not realize that without being  paid without being seduced without even  sleeping with any of these  you know  students that they  start to feel a tug at their  heart strikes they start to feel  a kind of gravitic pull  to say the things that the people in the  audience want to hear  now i am at the opposite end of this  spectrum  and it would be a long autobiographical  digression for me to reflect on when  exactly i had this realization but it's  a powerful and important realization for  all of us no matter what field even if  you're a taxi driver whether you're a  taxi driver or you're a creative writer  or you're a political dissident or  you're a language educator no matter  what  field you walk in  what would it say about me  if  my political philosophy  were really what all the hip  young teenagers were into  what would it say about me and my  message if i told you yeah yeah yeah you  know um  when i was in cambodia  phnom penh cambodia  i gave lectures  about history and politics and  philosophy oh and all the all the kip  young teenagers were into it oh yeah i  had a big i had an enthusiastic audience  of young people who really appreciated  and were really  they were really into this groovy new  philosophy  i was uh  pronouncing  as a sage on the stage  i did give lectures  in cambodia  people found them disturbing  people found them  upsetting  they contained hard jarring  uncomfortable truths that nobody wanted  to hear  i got questions to the audience  that are  hostile  they're welcome now too by the way you  can follow me give the video a thumbs up  and subscribe and leave a like well  they'll do q and a  i'm quite happy to deal with that  hostility and indeed you know it's  memorable for me some of the questions i  receive from people in cambodia who  utterly despise what i had to say those  are things all positively carry with me  for the rest of life like i appreciate  i appreciate that criticism even if it  was really criticism of someone who  couldn't comprehend what the point when  it was made was even if it was  fundamentally stupid or irrelevant  criticism i get to take that with me for  the rest of my life and oh okay that's  how cambodian people responded to being  in front of us okay i gave  lectures  in london england and cambridge  and oxford  i gave lectures back when i was in  toronto i'm sorry i have a long life of  lecturing that led up to my career here  on youtube all this is before started  the youtube channel and i've i've been  giving a lot of lectures these last five  years take a look at my youtube channel  or youtube channels plural you'll you'll  see thousands of lectures okay  what would it say about me  if i told you oh yeah yeah this this  lecture i gave in london england you  know all the hip young kids at the  university all the teenagers they were  really into it they were really  enthusiastic about it  no  no i'm not  sad  that the message i have to deliver is  disturbing and jarring  and shocking to people and in each one  of those contexts each milia if you like  there were  extraordinary  people who took me aside and told me  that they thought i was an extraordinary  person  i have had people say to me that they  thought i was a genius i have had people  say to me they thought i was one of the  few geniuses for this generation who's  going to shape events to come and so  i've had people flatter me on many  different levels in many different ways  sometimes to do with a specific field i  was giving a lecture and sometimes much  more much more generally non-specific  yeah i'm not lacking  for flattery some of you in the audience  right now you may have had this  experience people sometimes write to me  and they say hey look you know that  video you made so let's let's give a  let's give a disturbing example they'll  say something hey you know that video  you made  criticizing the black lives matter  movement  that really meant a lot to me that  really you know like you know you're not  an idiot you're not a right winger  you're not right like here were some  with a really intelligent nuanced  perspective that criticized black lives  matter from i could give a thousand  examples for thousands  what i say back to these people commonly  so many of you may have had an email i  just want to say ah  you know you're writing and saying to me  in whatever flattering terms that i'm an  extraordinary person for having made  this video but what i have to say to you  is you're an extraordinary person  because you could appreciate it  do you have any idea what percentage of  people watch this video and are just  horrified  and they just they just can't hear it  they just can't listen to it  when you give a lecture live in fourth  grade i i i've never had someone stand  up and walk out i've never had someone  actually walk out of the  lecture hall when i was giving a lecture  not not even on buddhist philosophy  of the different fields  on youtube it's really easy to walk you  know like you can watch someone for 30  seconds or five minutes you can get up  and leave  um  in this way the intellectuals of our  time  when they're boasting  they're really offering an indictment of  themselves  you know  you give many different examples  different things  what i had to say about the history of  the french empire in cambodia  french imperialism  all right  i was surprised  when i had this criminal i wasn't  expecting this all right it was so  shocking  and so disturbing to the establishment  of people who had phds people who were  in scholarly institutes that were either  in cambodia or they're flying back and  forth between paris and cambodia all  right that they all joined forces  against me and they prevented it from  being published when the editor of the  journal wanted to publish it and they  said no they had multiple meetings about  this apparently they discussed it they  discussed the article and they discussed  me said no we can't let this  pass we can't let this go into going to  print you know and that that's  stunning to me  i'd have to get into a lot of deals to  why that was so surprising it's much  less surprising to me that you know i  want to write an article talking about  the history of slavery in buddhism  and buddhists do not want that article  to be published i want to do research on  these kind of things look  it's not going to hurt the buddhist  religion  this is research about something and  buddhists true believing members of  faith they don't even want to admit it  exists they don't want to solve the  problem they don't want to acknowledge  there is a problem or was appropriate  it's less that's less surprising you  know overtly religious context of what  you can get away with in terms of  critique of religion and discussion of  of history  what if i were the sort of person the  sort of intellectual the sort of author  the sort of researcher the sort of  youtuber  who is here saying to you oh yeah what i  had to say in cambodia  it was a big hit  with the french academics with phds who  are still making excuses  to support french imperialism to glorify  the member of the french empire to this  day  what if i were saying you oh and that's  how i got ahead  i was such a darling all those people  invited me to enroll in their phd  programs in paris and berlin  what i had to say was so popular it was  so acceptable was so welcome such  welcome news to people in authority to  members of the establishment what if i  was saying oh yeah you know i've also  published newspaper articles a lot of  these places the newspaper articles i  published in laos  were shocking and disturbing including  the people in the government the  newspaper articles i published in  cambodia uh at least one was translated  into campaign i think two were  translated into the cambodian language  not not by myself by professional  translators  uh there were individuals  there were extraordinary individuals who  recognized  the importance of my work in laos and  cambodia and all these places and a lot  of them said to me hey you're  extraordinary whatever particular words  they used to they say wow you're this  extraordinary intellectual this is an  extraordinary article  they're so happy to meet me  but a large part of what i have to say  back is  you may be ignoring the extent to which  you are an extraordinary person because  you opened that newspaper  and you were prepared  to read it you were prepared to hear it  you attended that lecture you were  willing to listen  then you had whatever it took whether  it's an emotional prerequisite or an  intellectual prerequisite you had what  it took  you know  to really hear and understand and see  the value in what i had to say and that  is not  for the vast majority of teenagers and  it's not for the vast majority of  middle-aged people and it's not for the  vast majority of greybeards okay  the vast majority of elderly people also  cannot appreciate and cannot sympathize  with what i have to say  all right if i go and give a lecture  at a polyglot conference  like alexander our guy right i will not  be cheered by the crowd all right what i  have to say about language education  what i have to say about the life of the  mind  being an intellectual being an author  being a researcher you know  what i have to say under any of these  topics  it's not popular it's never going to be  popular and i am not in a position to  apologize for that  or to feel ashamed  what is the lie alexander or guy is  selling  well  he tells you  that if you study  for just 15 minutes per day  and  he lets you know that it might be too  much  for you to start with 15 minutes a day  you maybe have to start with five  minutes or even less and work your work  with it  if in the fullness of time you can  cultivate the habit and commit to study  for just 15 minutes a day you can  accomplish  more  in one year  than a university student a full-time  university student enrolled in the study  of these languages now  i am understating the grandiosity  of the promises he makes of the  enticements he offers you if you will  just study language  using his method following his formula  so let's say here  um  think of the pressure  an 18 year old feels  when studying for an exam  quite from wrong people start university  around age 18 these days i think that's  the normal age now  okay  for a lot of you this is a um  oh great question  i'll introduce myself someone asked when  uh when is no more manifesto is coming  out so i'm publishing one book uh maybe  even tomorrow or the next day but just  in the next few days i'm publishing  future of an illusion  and i've i've basically taken a break  from finishing home manifestos to write  and publish this book  veganism calling the future of an  illusion  and then i'm going to  finalize the final manuscript for no  more manifestos and it'll be on  amazon soon thereafter but right now  that's my only priority is finishing and  publishing those  those two books anyway we have  confirmation it's normal to begin going  to university age 18. so for a lot of  you uh for professor argele himself  it may be a very distant difficult  memory for you to really think back on  the fear  and trembling  you once had  when studying for an exam  when writing the exam  maybe  when receiving the test results back  when they handed you the grade when you  really didn't know if you were going to  fail this course or at the other end  you're trying to get an a plus and you  don't know if you're going to get an a  plus or an a minus or you know you don't  know  how how well you're going to do the  fear  the  pressure  of being in a university course  of having your parents tell you  you are the first child in this family  to have the opportunity to go to  university your father saved up money  for 20 years since before you were born  we started saving so you could have this  opportunity to go to university you  better not screw up  or maybe you personally went into debt  you took it alone maybe your parents  didn't save any money but you signed up  for one of those one of those ones  okay  now a lot of professors forget this a  lot of professors forget the turmoil  sitting  at your own desk  with your own copy of a pamphlet  to memorize vocabulary for 15 minutes  today with no deadline with no  evaluation with no exam all right even  if this were the only factor we were  taking out of consideration here right  it could never  possibly  be as powerful a language learning tool  as the university course  i wish i could tell you that in my  experience  90  of university language courses  are  [ __ ]  in my experience it's a hundred percent  they're all bad they're all terrible i  don't know of any exceptions anywhere in  the world and i talked to everyone i  possibly could i've talked to and  visited universities in europe in asia  in north america admittedly for example  never mexico  never latin america you know like there  are parts of the world where i don't  know how they teach languages but i have  looked into formal classroom language  education all over the world  not africa you know there are there are  blind spots interestingly also israel i  looked into how the hebrew language is  taught in israel it's remarkably bad  i am not holding up the university  classroom as a standard of excellence  from my perspective the way languages  are taught and learned and forgotten in  universities is a standard of awfulness  there's a tremendously important  critique of university education and of  how little anyone learns at such a  tremendous cost  all right  but i am saying  that the method endorsed by professor  arghay  is  worse  it's worse  than the low standard said  by universities  now  if you  want to be muscular  there were many things  i could lie to you about  to make money there are many ways i can  monetize my advice or encouragement for  you to start  living away  but i think the most fundamental  is  time  right  there are days right now i'm i'm no  great paragon of beauty there are days  when i spend three hours exercising  you know if we include the long walks we  take  and i take walks with maybe 30 pounds in  a backpack i don't even know if it's 30  pounds but i have a very heavy backpack  backpack full of rocks in effect  um we do these long walks that can be an  hour and i can spend two hours  at the gym  i could sit here and tell you it's  nothing i could sit here and tell you  that that hasn't delayed the publication  of my forthcoming book no more  manifestos i could see their lives it  hasn't delayed the publication of my  forthcoming book you know future of an  illusion  it has  days on which i spend three hours  exercising  the loss of productive mental time i  have is much more  than three hours all right  i do not generally  snap into  say writing or editing the book and snap  out of it  it's not that fast it's not that easy to  you know this is a really idiom in  english to get into the groove to get  into the flow  of whatever kind of work it is you're  doing i would i would really have gotten  much more done the past two years if i  completely neglected my physical health  if i just hunched over the typewriter  and worked continuously in that  flow it's a sacrifice  it's a real sacrifice guys  i do 200 push-ups per session  all right  the push-ups themselves take very little  time all right there are many of you in  the audience and you can stop and ask  yourself from your current level of  fitness  what if you wanted to get on my level  where you can without  exhausting yourself without it being  such a big deal you can do 200 push-ups  okay  now what if i'm looking at the  possibility of going from my current  level of fitness to being a  middle-aged instagram model like i want  to really be so fit that i don't know  it's going to help sell copies of my my  forthcoming book all right the most  important thing  to be honest about  is time  one of the reasons for that is  because time  is true for everyone regardless of your  psychological or emotional character now  melissa is sitting here you can you can  jump in but you know  do you do you have an estimate for how  many hours you spent studying chinese  in the last year i like i'm not asking  you to memorize though but like have  because i know you've been tracking  a lot of your a lot of your time so  melissa off camera has been learning  chinese  i know but like  let let's just say at a minimum look  i think a lot of days it's four hours  out of the day lately  lately  you know of course maybe that's not  seven days a week  but it's easy so i'm not gonna describe  her method here but  i think i think you could  even if it's not for the whole last two  years  for the last six months i don't think it  would be unreasonable talking four hours  a day because some days it's more than  four hours and some days less but yeah  okay four hours a day  all right  now first note that's the same for  everyone  lifting weights to the gym you know  what's not the same for everyone  how you cope with the stress  how you deal with it emotionally and  intellectually  all right  [Laughter]  um  [Music]  you know like at the gym  10 different people can put in the exact  same amount of work  they can lift the same amount of weight  for the same amount of reps  now what most people pay attention to is  the difference in their results like the  actual amount of muscle they gain or the  amount of fat they lose that's not going  to be the same for all 10 people okay  how about the number of hours of sleep  they're getting  all right one of the reasons why i don't  push myself beyond a certain point in  exercise this happens most often with  the muscles in my legs  if i push myself too hard  i don't sleep that night  and i don't even i don't feel bad so  with exercise physically i don't feel  anguished i don't feel upset  i just don't sleep and i can even you  know i can even kind of enjoy my life  that way i mean it's a lot harder if  you're a parent taking care of a kid or  i don't know you know it depends what  you've got going on but like for me if i  really lose a whole night's sleep which  happens sometimes sometimes i'm i  basically sleep for one hour or two  hours in the night and having your  muscles all pumped up and all strung out  you can lose a night's sleep you know um  and and trust me it's not that i'm using  steroids  you know it's not once you get to that  we have a whole other level of questions  just talking about natural  exercise here okay for those 10 people  if we do an experiment where they all do  exactly the same exercise same reps same  weight the knock-on effects  psychologically emotionally and in terms  of their sleep cycle are going to be  different okay  i know what it's like  to lose sleep because you're learning a  language i know what it's like to push  yourself so hard that you're cracking up  okay i know what it's like to push  yourself  against those limits i know what it's  like  to be sweating  at your desk and have the sweat  literally pour down your pencil and make  the pencil impossible to use because the  the tip of the pencil  got wet and i know what it's like to  break down weeping at your desk and it's  just weeping out of stress i mean really  you know what i mean like not because  someone's been  been mean to you  okay i know what it's like to absolutely  push yourself to limit where you're  waking up at 5 30 in the morning to  study chinese  before a class that starts at nine in  the morning you know so you can wake up  eat and like  study for an hour before you get in the  bus however it works out you know i know  what it's like where you're dreaming or  having nightmares  in that language whatever your target  language is and i know what it's like to  study more than one language  at the same time  okay i know what those upper limits  are like okay  and i know  most of you  can't cope with that  i know  that most human beings would cope with  that  far  far worse  than i did  and i know that most human beings  even when they are placed in the most  encouraging circumstances whether that  be in a university program  or a military program or a new  immigration and adjustment program like  when they really have an institution  helping them learn the language and  rewarding them for learning language or  when they're married to someone who is  loving and caring and encouraging and  helping them learn language it's very  common you marry someone they teach you  a language or learn a language with you  that kind of thing all right i had none  of these circumstances i was in really  really tough conditions when i could now  list off all the languages i've studied  it's a long list and how horrible the  conditions i was in  it's irrelevant  what i have seen again and again is that  even people who have  shall we say the most uh  velvet-lined manacles  you know  they're they're in the most  luxuriant of prisons in a phd program  for example okay  the vast majority of them  could not do  what i did  in a [ __ ] tent  with no electricity and a flashlight  under a mosquito net like under really  hard conditions  you could tell a million different  anecdotes about this  but  i do have a friend now who teaches  german  at a university in the united states of  america  she complains to me and someone sends me  funny kind of screenshots and pictures  related to how  awful her job is there are a lot of  different things you could say about  this she has a lot of experience  teaching different people of different  ages  if your first language is english one of  the easiest languages you could possibly  learn is german okay learning german  compared to chinese  compared to cambodian compared to lotion  compared to pali you know sanskrit  whatever  i mean  um german is one of the easiest  languages you could you could possibly  learn all right  i think one of the most fundamental  problems  is that her  students  are poisoned by the notion that all they  have to do is 15 minutes a day  all right now  even for german  even for german you have to live  the training you know you have to do  written composition and listening  comprehension and just  repetition again and again and again  until you reach a point where the rules  of grammar come to you automatically you  know it doesn't it doesn't occur to you  to use the wrong gender it doesn't occur  to you to have the wrong verb ending or  adjective and you don't have to think  about it in terms of rules because you  have put in those hours and that's going  to be far far more than the minimum  number of hours required by uh by  university program right i mean the  level of sacrifice level of work now  when you really understand how awful  that is a lot of people they probably  shouldn't be studying german at all  probably a lot of people are signing up  with the kind of encouragement of the  kind of bad advice uh professor gay  gives you  and they think oh it'll be no big deal  just learn some german it'll be fun  it'll you know it'll expand my horizons  and  you know i mean look  my problem in life really is not with  tourists who have casually attempted to  learn a language for a couple of years  and have failed what i have seen  are the people with phds themselves the  people who become  professors themselves that they  never learned the basics  i mean the basics not just they fail to  achieve  you know advanced levels of competence  in these languages i think our  university language education system it  is rotten  from root to branch  but the people at the top  they can be  the most  rotten  of all  now i have written to professor arge  several times  a couple of my comments  were  deleted and he didn't reply to you but  one of them i know by the way i believe  i've seen a lot of evidence for this i  believe he actually does read every  single comment he gets on his youtube  channel he replies to many but sometimes  he replies and sometimes he deletes it  and decides not to reply that seems to  be his style  i'm not  holding against him whether or not he  will see this video whether he will hear  this critique is quite another matter  the way that professor argey has  responded to this is by the simple use  of weasel words you know they say well  i didn't promise you  that the results you would get would be  just as good  doing 15 minutes a day as they would be  enrolling university course you know  right so you can go back and look at the  precise wording he used and you can  decide for yourself whether or not  there's any  wiggle room  uh whatsoever  now  yeah i've seen books for sale  learn a language in  10 days  learn a language in five days learn a  language in two weeks for language and  in six months  you know  um  there are ways in which you can say this  kind of fraud  isn't new  okay  what's new  is people in positions of power and  privilege like you  professor our guy  that you have become a snake oil  salesman  you are supposed to represent  a standard of excellence say it's about  all university professors you are  supposed to represent something better  than the huckster on the street who  stands there and sells snake oil who  stands there and tells people whatever  they want to hear  just to make a buck in the short term  right you're supposed to be better than  a private for-profit language tutor or  private for profit book publishing  company where they think they're going  to sell more books by trying to make you  trying to convince  people in the audience people in the  market that it's going to be so easy and  so rapid for them to learn this language  it is your role  as a professor to tell one incoming  generation of students after another no  if you want to do this  if you want to learn a latin  and you want to have your latin on this  level so you can have this career in the  next four years  here's how much work it's going to be  here's the sacrifice you're going to  make and you've got to give them advice  further if you get to the halfway point  if you're two years into latin and you  can't do this this and this at this  level of confidence and solubility  then you're going to have to take a gap  year  you're going to have to stop  and you're going to have to go work your  ass off 24 7 for 365 days so you can get  to where you need to be before you go  into the third year  all right  i could repeat this for german i could  be this for chinese i could read this  for any language  that it is your job  to give people to tell people what they  don't want to hear  to give them the advice that you know  and look you know ultimately these  things do come down to quantitative  measurements how much competence  do your students have after four years  in most programs it's practically zero  so i've i've posted articles about this  on the internet in the past when you  look at okay the average american  university student who has quote unquote  four years of education in chinese in a  ba program the united states of america  at the end of that can they even speak  in simple complete sentences can they do  this can they do that the actual level  of language confidence produced by this  is almost nothing okay  so what's the road ahead lying  is that how we're going to solve this  problem  [Laughter]  by lying about it  oh  i've known  quite a few professors  who  slept with their students  i knew one guy  and  he was married they were young couple  and he was very athletic which is  unusual for someone with a phd  and he was also he was one of these  white guys  who had converted to christianity so i'm  guessing his family were atheist or just  culturally christian  but he had an epiphany  he'd become uh fanatically christian  after  eating  falling in love with and marrying  his wife his wife wasn't into it  spoilers he ended up cheating on his  wife and he cheated on her by sleeping  with  one of the students he was a university  professor  to call it a love affair would be an  exaggeration this example was memorable  with me for many reasons  his method of informing his wife  was to send her a text message to her  mobile phone  um  so in those days text messages had a  limited number of  characters limited number of words i  don't know if that's changed can you now  i think you can send now a paragraph you  can send quite a long text message but  this text message was something like you  know  slept with students  am leaving you  file for divorce it was this kind of  literary  masterpiece  you know and the fact that this was done  by text message at all you know  there are a lot of ways to let your wife  know you've been cheating on them it's  all there are also a lot of ways to let  your wife know that you've violated your  own code of conduct your own standard  standards of duty and  professionalism that you're you know  you're the did you fail to uphold the  code that you swore you would live by  right or wrong you took that vow  um  i knew another professor  i don't know how he got away with this  when you think about it he was married  and he started sleeping with the  secretary in the university department  who was much younger than him and much  younger than his wife she wasn't a  student but she was the secretary it's  also forbidden and one day mysteriously  he wasn't married to his wife anymore he  was married to the secretary  you know so i've known a lot of  combinations and and permutations um  of this kind  however  you know  as bad and bleak as that may be as dark  and negative as the consequences may be  you know you can  say  that this belongs in a very different  category  from the men who are their whole lives  subject to a kind of persuasion  from women they never seduce and you  never seduce them back you know men who  are forever  you know being led by their nose  men  who are willing to watch  a youtube channel  and lie to themselves  that the woman speaking is really very  intelligent or very well informed  just because  she's good looking and of course we can  repeat all of this with a female  protagonist in relation to a male isn't  it easy to tell yourself isn't it easy  to interpret in the most generous way  possible  something stupid that somebody said make  yourself think this person is more  intelligent than they are because you  find them attractive  um university professors perhaps  especially language instructors all  right  these people  feel  like losers  they feel like they could never get the  prettiest girl in their high school they  could never get the prettiest girl in  the university they feel that nobody  appreciates them nobody understands  their brilliance nobody understands the  importance of  what they do right  and we're up against some hard facts of  human biology here  you know welcome is the fact that you  whether you are a male professor or a  female professor  you are in your 30s you're in your 40s  or 50s or your 60s it doesn't turn off  you know when you're meeting people who  are 18 to 25  right  in contrast to the professor who  actually cheats on his wife and ruins  his marriage or in contrast to the  professor who cheats on his wife and  ruins his career like who sleeps with a  student and ends up you know they're  they're fired and their their reputation  is ruined they have those  consequences all right there's a much  larger number of professors  who are at all times  pandering  to their students  where  instead of the students seeking the  approval of the professor  it is the professor who is seeking the  approval  of his or her  students  is it sometimes  due to a sincere sense of intellectual  camaraderie between  a professor  and a student  no  never  it's always this shallow it's always  this dark  it's always this bad  i'm going to tell you  why if these people  were capable  of that kind of intellectual camaraderie  whether with someone younger  or someone older they would not be a  pawn  in that professorial game  they would not be  on that position  or it would not last long  they would very soon  be moving on to other kinds of endeavors  working with those people  with whom they had  that kind of sincere  intellectual camaraderie that working  with their  their colleagues  if you're a professor security  university  you know let's let's just say it's  english literature as an example just  this is easy to visualize but we could  repeat this for language learning for  all kinds of things  do you ever hear of a professor  who met a talented student and where  there's no sex involved like it's a  heterosexual man heterosexual man or  whatever it's a gay man and a woman but  whatever where there's no  say have you ever heard of a professor  who met a really talented bright student  and said hey you know what you and me  we should become the editors of a new  magazine of a new literature we should  really get something started you know  hey you know what  you have a really great critical  perspective on theater on drama we got  to start publishing this  it would cost them nothing for these  people if you have a if you have a seat  in a university if you have a permanent  job do you know how little that would  take for a professor to actively recruit  talent actively work with talent  actively start a journal show a little  would take for a professor to start  their own language institute  independent from the university to start  employing some of their former students  as instructors and teachers to put  together their own package and start  paying their employees and paying  themselves much more than they make  inside the university system do you know  if you have any entrepreneurial zeal if  you have any capacity to appreciate  intellectual talent in others and where  it really is  you know being their colleague being  their comrade not  sexually exploiting them  not  um affirming your own ego  you know not trying to make yourself  feel better about your own  lost youth  wasted and abandoned aspirations and so  on not trying to compensate for your  sense that  nobody's ever appreciated your  intelligence your brilliance or what you  could have done because  professors do exploit students in  exactly that way and the schroeder  students they learn how to exploit the  professors back right there are students  who in a very canny way they recognize  okay the professor represents this  obscure  school of feminist  radical leftist philosophy so i'm going  to go up to the professor and say hey i  read your paper  about duluz and i really agree with you  i'm going to go and i'm gonna i'm gonna  pretend  that this professor's particular  political philosophy or particular  methodology that it really appeals to me  and in this way many of the schroeder  students they pander to the professors  and the  professors  uh pander back  okay  wouldn't it be different to live in a  world  where the relationship between professor  and student  and the relationship between leader and  follower  that we have here more vaguely with  alexander arguelle and his status in the  polyglot  community polyglot internet  phenomenon  wouldn't it be different if these  relationships were built on outcomes  measurable  outcomes  what if it had nothing to do with who  you like who you're attracted to who you  feel flattered by  who you get along with right  what if these were actually productive  working relationships  of people who are trying to learn a  language people who are trying to teach  a language and people  who are trying to do something to uh  create a future  for the discipline or movement that they  see themselves  being a part of  now i'm going to give you a tiny little  example and then we'll just come back to  language education and my perspective  that's a wrap  um  i asked one professor after another  in buddhist studies  but what are you doing  for the future of the discipline  now  these are very different people  some of these people were ethnically  chinese and born and raised in china  some of these people were white and born  and raised in europe like  some of these people were from india or  sri lanka they were really different  people  but what they all  had in common  was that their approach to education  their approach to philosophy their  approach to politics their approach to  using the position of authority and  privilege they really have as university  professors was  100  self-centered  100 percent self-pitying  100 percent short-term  self-indulgence  and they would be shocked they had never  thought of it before  when i said to them well yeah but if  this is how you run your department of  buddhist studies if this is like who you  exclude and who you recruit and this is  what you teach and this is what you  refuse to deal with and this is the  research you refuse to let happen and  this is the reason like this is what's  going on right like i understand that's  easiest for you now  like  i understand you're you're eliminating  problems you don't want to deal with  this way but okay ten years from now  what's gonna happen in the discipline  like the people or your students today  they will be professors just ten years  from now it's not that long down the  road right so if you're not recruiting  talent if you're not doing something  positive if you're not creating the  basis for the future of the discipline  right what's  what's going to happen to it  you know now as they say their responses  were incredibly stupid  but the most important thing of all was  just they had never thought of this  before they like i i think would be an  insult to long-term thinking to say that  they lack long-term thinking they were  not even thinking five years ahead they  were not thinking 10 years ahead now  this comes back to language learning in  a very direct way  like you're in a department of buddhist  studies  and you say okay if nobody can learn  pali if nobody can learn sanskrit if  nobody can learn tibetan and the story  like you have all these things you can't  do  where are we gonna be 10 years from now  like i understand  the easiest thing for you to do and  maybe also financially the most  profitable thing for you to do is just  to have like yoga classes just have  people come in and talk about you know  your aura and breathing exercises talk  about the same crap that they'd hear on  a on a podcast about meditation and yoga  and eastern spirituality like okay i  understand like that's probably what the  students are expecting the students  parents are probably happy to pay for it  everyone's happy to get an a minus or  whatever with minimum effort like you  know that the courses are not going to  be that that rigorously difficult like i  understand short term this may smear  this okay  to be blunt what about the extraordinary  students like myself what about the  students who are really committed to  this for the next 10 years next 20 years  the rest of our lives where what we need  is the preparation to have a career in  this field and this discipline and we  can't get anything we on the contrary  you've actually created a  milia  you've created a kind of intellectual  context that's quite hostile to us that  excludes us that excludes the tiny  number of students who want to talk  about the history of slavery who want to  talk about the history of war and racism  and you know  students who are actually interested in  reading the scientific evidence that  meditation doesn't work students who are  willing to talk about and do research  about where an essay is about  corruption scandals than buddhism sex  scandals than buddhism yes yes y'all  it's not just the catholic church right  you know well we  and i don't know any one of them myself  not a whole lot of us you know we people  like that  right like it or not we are  the future of the discipline right and  there's a really weird sense in which  this whole university system it just  exists for us  language education i've studied many  different languages in many different  institutions all right  so once in a charming little town called  saskatchewan don't try to spell it  i was in saskatchewan studying cree  and ojibwe nehewin yeah  um i say korean ojibwe because the  program covered both nihiawewen is just  the indigenous word for cree  all right  now what's the easy way  to teach those courses you have a cree  language course if you think learning  german is hard try studying  cree all right try studying a really  foreign language okay  [Laughter]  talk about languages you cannot learn  from a mobile phone app  okay well you know  the easy way to do it actually has a lot  in common with what i was just saying  about buddhism  cultural dancing  music  playing a drum  storytelling  right  how about you learn some  magic words  from the religion how about you go out  and tour some sites like you have a  field trip  i'm saying  how about you go and see some ancient  sacred paintings on a rock and then on  the exam what's the word for sacred rock  like  you can dumb this all the way down and  all the students are happy  and all the students parents are happy  and by the way some of the students are  white they're taking they're interested  in kind of cultural sensitivity course  for the relationship between white  people and the indigenous people they've  driven to the brink of extinction now  but a lot of them  ethnically are cree or ojibwe they're  ethnically first nations people but they  have no connection to the language the  culture of the history they've you know  they've grown up in a colonized modern  world you know they've grown up in  21st century canada right a lot of them  may be totally happy with that too they  don't really want to sit and memorize  verb endings they don't want to drill  sentence structure they don't want to  learn grammar and they don't want to do  written compositions that's really  that's really hard work  right  okay so you you it's in everybody's you  just keep dumbing it down  what's and what's the most convenient  lie of all  15 minutes a week 50 minutes all it  takes  you can do it you know  i mean what's most convenient is to lie  that at the end of this course you're  going to be able to speak the language  or at the end of four years of doing  this okay there are all kinds of ways to  make language education entertaining and  fun  say this about working out at the gym  they're ways to make lifting weights  entertaining and fun and they don't work  okay  weight lifting is pain  exercise is  suffering  period okay and like no matter how  careful you are  they're gonna be nights where  you you you only you lose a whole  night's sleep you know you're up on just  cause you have twitching tight muscles  not even an injury you're just so pumped  up or you're whatever your cortisol  levels whatever the hell it is you know  when you are lifting weights no matter  how safe no matter careful all right  there's no way to make this  harmless and easy and quick  and fun and entertaining it's hours it's  sweat it's tears  it's  suffering and the problem is when you  dumb down language education  all right you hurt the people like  me  you hurt  exactly the people this institution this  multi-million dollar institution  was created to help and you ruined the  future of your own discipline  okay if you have that one person in a  million  who really has the talent the experience  and the motivation to sit down and do  the hard work of learning the language  what happens to them  when they show up and the whole  institution has been corrupted by the  philosophy of alexander arghei when it's  been corrupted  by this process whereby the professors  begin to pander to the students they  just want to do whatever is hip and  groovy and popular with the students  they want to give lectures that the  students find funny and entertaining and  uplifting and you know they don't  they don't want to be the mean bad  professor where the professors have  completely bought into this process of  of of lowering the standards  right okay  whether the students are one in a  million or one in ten thousand or  whatever it is you have someone who  shows up and says look i made these  sacrifices i rented a new home i moved  across the country in my case i moved  across the world  i came here to learn this language  now  like i don't have 20 years  i don't have two million dollars i have  a certain amount of money i've spent on  tuition a certain amount of money i'm  spending on rent and i i i am here to  create the foundation for the rest of my  career in this language and i need you  to help me and what are you doing  all right you have corrupted  this whole institution  precisely the resources precisely the  courses precisely the teaching and  training that's supposed to be here to  help me  right  instead  and if any of you live through this  you've seen this instead you've created  a situation that's actually  hostile towards me  that's actually  punishing me because i'm the one person  putting up their hand who actually wants  to learn the grammar i'm the only person  who's trying to speak in a complete  sentence or resence or learn the  vocabulary right i'm the only person who  isn't dragging those standards down  even lower  and  let me ask you this professor orgay  you know  where does the [ __ ]  stop  i have a friend who became a nurse  i've had several friends who are nurses  i think i have at least two right now  who are nurses actually um but i have a  friend who became a nurse during the  years i knew him he took all the exams  and so on and so forth  uh quite a long process over over many  years  you know what  there are a lot  of really stupid really lazy people who  become nurses  and he's been in the classroom with him  he's been in the classroom with people  who are only motivated by the money  they  they probably told us since they were a  child by their parents or grandparents  oh you know be a nurse get a get a  steady check every month there he's been  in the classroom i mean i remember this  from when i was a teenager  there's a certain kind of  good-looking  lazy not particularly intelligent woman  and you know she was looking at  different career paths  okay working in the nail salon  esthetician  uh  dental assistant  you know receptionist  and somehow they settled on nurse  you know but where they're they're just  that kind of person they have no  interest in the medical science or  excellence they've noticed in the future  of the discipline and they're in the  classroom  trying to do the bare minimum  all right  um  there are also people who go into  nursing as a midlife career change  a lot of other kind of stereotypes to  unpack in terms of who is in that  classroom and why  with what motivations  do you think you can learn how to be a  nurse  in 15 minutes a day  no exams  no pressure  it is so much easier  in your own native language  to learn everything you know  to be a nurse  than it is to become fluent in the  chinese language  than it is to become fluent in the  japanese language  in the cree language in the ojibwe  language  okay  the sad irony is  i actually think you could  learn to become a nurse  15 minutes a day  but even if it is possible whereas i'm  saying it's impossible to learn chinese  that way  the last thing we need  are people in positions of power like  you dr arkay  dumbing down the institutions lowering  the standards pandering to the audience  telling them what they want to hear  and encouraging them to think  this is going to be a very low level of  sacrifice and a very low level of  self-discipline  for a huge and immediate reward  what you need are professors who stand  up and say to those nursing students  when they come in  look  this is how much time it's going to take  just to do the bare minimum this is how  much time it's going to take to be  adequate if you can't do this this and  this at a level of excellence after six  months in the program or two years of  perimeter if it is  you need to stop  you need to drop out and enroll in a  totally different nature become an x-ray  technician because you can't do the job  or you need to take a gap year  you know keep the books with you you  know  go stay in a cabin in the woods and  study for 365 days a year you know  12 hours a day you need to catch up this  is what's required of you and if you're  not good enough or if you're not putting  in the time if you're not putting in the  effort to reach that level of excellence  you fail  right  this is not because  i'm glorifying the fear of failure all  right  if you don't do that  what do you  produce  what is the future of the nursing  discipline going to be as you embrace  lower and lower standards of stupider  and stupider and more self-indulgent  people who call themselves nurses but  who do not in fact have any of the  confidence  that defines that field  now melissa you have not had a lot of  opportunities to talk  do you want you want to jump in and say  a few words there are some questions  comments to the audience if you guys  have anything to say um  now's the time to say something and i'll  actually uh  [Laughter]  cool  well william mcgeehan says just don't  say that you're a very stable genius  that that catchphrase has already been  taken by someone else yeah that's a  memorable one from  from donald trump um  well  look  you know  when people call you a genius how are  you going to react  when i was young  16 17 18 19 even 20.  what i would say to them was  the only reason you're telling me that  i'm a genius  is because you don't want to help  and i need help  and it did really happen in those  circumstances i'd go in to talk to a  professor this is a real example but  it's represented many go in and talk to  a professor  of economics  and say look i don't have the background  i need to do this math and nobody's  going to help me like i didn't learn  this in high school i didn't learn this  in primary school whatever i like you  know i don't have the background of math  to be doing this university level course  in economics without  help  i remember the particular professor  he was jewish  i am a jewish genetically i'm not a  member of the jewish religion in any  sense  and the first thing he said to me you  know after i'd  made my introductions and explained that  i needed help he said oh you know  you must have grown up with someone  speaking yiddish in your family you can  tell immediately from a voice you're so  eloquent you're so well spoken is this  saying not only that i must be jewish  but that i must be from a you know  specific subculture within judaism and  this this professor he was tremendous  and what he had to say to me was that i  was obviously this very talented and  very intelligent  person  i'm paying  tens of thousands of dollars  right  and nobody's gonna help  like i'm paying tens of thousands of  dollars and i've got to show up and  write an exam  either i already know how to do it or i  have a father or a brother who's going  to teach me  there was there was no education there  to be had  in economics i mean that specific  department that that year at that time  you know now a lot of language education  projects like that too and i mean that  so that was not the only situation like  that but it's like okay  like i see how this works  and i don't think that professor was  being insincere at all  i mean i think i think he was really  genuinely flattering me i think he was  very impressed with talking to me about  politics and economics i think he really  felt that i was the most intelligent  most interesting student he had in his  office that day or that week or maybe  for a couple of years oh wow here's a  really bright positively motivated kid  who's interested in economics and police  but i can see why he'd respond to me  positively compared to the people i was  sitting next to in class like you know i  knew what most of my classmates were  like compared to people who were just  coming in and saying oh i want a higher  grade why can't you raise my  you know there were some really there  were some real challenges there were  people with bad  with bad motivations there right  um so my point is not that these  professors are  being consciously and intentionally  manipulative when they flatter you or  nor other people generally you know but  what i perceived was that you know when  you say that i am talented when you say  that i'm brilliant if you say that i'm a  genius  what you mean is  you're not going to do anything now  you are going to completely dismiss  what i'm telling you the problem is and  what i need help with and you're going  to you're going to go back to your wife  or whatever tonight and say you know i  met a really sharp kid today that that  kid's going places and i'm here saying  to you no i'm not  i'm here saying to you straight to your  face i'm dropping out of the program and  i can't do this because the program you  created is bad and deeply flawed right  and that  you know i'm saying  uh that's that's the mismatch so i had  to start struggling with that early on  now look  some of you  you've never known what it's like to  have a professor tell you that you're a  genius some of you like as a writer  you've never given your writing to an  editor or something and had them say and  what doesn't matter if they use the word  brilliant say that this is whether or  not they use the word genius or  brilliant or whatever you've never had  those those kinds of reactions well i've  had flattery from editors were telling  me they can't publish it too look i  can't publish this but this is genius  this is brilliant i want you to know i  don't take the time out of my day to  talk to everybody so this is a  manuscript this is this is amazing  research this is amazing writing you  know you get positive feedback that's  part of a rejection you know no  unfortunately politically this is so  provocative we couldn't possibly publish  you know you can get you can get all  that uh all that feedback too you know i  remember i've had very few conversations  with my sister beth in my whole life  um i have two sisters you know but in my  whole life i've spoken to beth  incredibly few times  and i remember a conversation with my  sister where she was she was being so  cruel to me and so vicious to me my  mother was there and and witnessed the  whole thing  and um  anyway obviously i could tell this in  greater detail  but after the conversation was over  you know my mother said to me like don't  you get it  the reason why she's mad at you is that  none of her professors  ever called her a genius  and like you casually in passing  were mentioning like professors you were  criticized like it's true i was like  complain i wasn't bragging about myself  i was complaining about how awful  everything was at university i and i  think at least one of the professors i  was mentioning um  you know she studied with the same  professor you know  um  yeah you know well guess what she went  on to get a phd and i didn't  i have no envy for her she has a couple  youtube videos up guys  if you want to know just how  intellectually unimpressive my older  sister is if you want to know why none  of the professors were calling her jeans  but i remember her viciousness and her  jealousy and i've made other videos time  with jealousy is very strange to me  right  um and i remember my mother  seeing that and saying that when to me  like i was totally alien because i  wasn't i wasn't boasting i was i was  complaining it was related to what i've  just said like look these professors  praise you but the reality is like you  can't actually learn the language you  can't do this you can't do that like the  system is broken and by praising you  they're writing you off they're throwing  you into the dustbin of history where  everyone says they're discarding you  while telling you that you're a genius  like this is this the kind of thing i'm  complaining about but that that in  itself you know my sister couldn't  couldn't cope with that that excited too  much josie and in many ways i mean she  was intensely jealous of me her whole  life i think she still is  and who can blame her  um  this is a little bit of a digression  from a depression  um  [Music]  you know it's easy to give advice  that presumes  someone is on your level  and it's a lot harder  and it's not a lot more humiliating to  really cast your mind back and remember  what help and what advice you needed  when you were at their level  so i do this a lot i mean i'm a very  self-critical person this way  but like i remember how stupid i was and  i like i i remember it in a way where  you're really living through it again  you're feeling that discomfort i  remember how stupid it was i remember  how ignorant i was i remember the  misconceptions i had  when i first started studying the korean  language when i first studied studying  the chinese language but this is not in  order  uh  when i first started studying korean  egypt like i can remember the hopes and  dreams side with each language  but i can remember  you know like remember my own enthusiasm  like you could say it that way but like  to really inhabit that memory where you  deal with and confront and feel  like how vulnerable you were at that  time how much you needed help and and  maybe you didn't even know how to ask  for the help you needed now sorry for me  one language after another you know when  i first started studying korean i didn't  know what to ask for help i didn't know  what held asphalt but sure  when you're dealing with the languages  later i knew exactly what helped ask for  i knew exactly what i needed to do  because i'd studied six other languages  already or something you know i could  you know obviously this and i was  getting older and more mature  um  yeah so look i mean i think i think what  i'm doing here is uniting two seemingly  unrelated points okay people see you as  a genius people see you as talented and  people say to your face kid you're going  someplace you're gonna have no problems  in life like you don't need my help  that's people said my whole [ __ ] life  and i'm saying no like i need help i'm  failing and you know i'm failing this  institution is deeply flawed and [ __ ] i  can't win here i'm going to lose  loosener i'm like i'm looking at  dropping out and joining the army that  was a real thing that happened  um you know it's a real example i talked  to with professors and they all said  good they all knew go back to university  they thought it was a great idea for me  to drop out and drop the army i'm  touching  it's great oh so yesterday you were  telling me i'm a genius now you're  telling me it's good dropout  these are not mutually exclusive  possibilities  so you know i've been through some  really weird situations that with  authority figures right like okay you  perceive me as talented you perceive me  as brilliant  but  i perceive myself as vulnerable  i know the help i need i know the help  i'm asking for and i know how different  it is this thing that you or the  institution are are providing me so look  i'd say this dude the most generous  thing i can say about professor r gay  maybe now  as an old man  who's already studied so many languages  so many years maybe he can just sit  alone at his desk and study a language  for 15 minutes a day  i doubt it i'm just being honest with  you i don't  so i'm also a mean old man with a lot of  experiences  how much progress could i make in  chinese for 15 minutes a day nothing  no even spanish i'm sorry even an easy  language like it's not going to be 15  minutes a day it's going to be five  hours a day it's it's you know you're  going to break your brain and you really  have to pour it on to make any progress  at all it's my honest opinion here you  know i i i don't i don't think it's true  however you know the most charitable  thing i could say is that a small part  of his problem everything i said earlier  in the video i think is the larger part  of them  maybe a small part of the problem is not  having the humility  and not being able to endure the very  real suffering  of casting your mind back to remember um  what it was like for you when you were  in that in that vulnerable position  you know  oh great question isil as a vegan do you  eat canned mandarin oranges in in syrup  have we done that even once in the last  five years is that no  i think uh canned fruit  um can be important for avoiding scurvy  on long ocean voyages and the  exploration of the south pole  but yeah that's that's about it i i  can't remember last time  we're not we're canned fruit i don't  know it could be that could be the title  of volume three of my autobiography  canned fruit  yep so you know a note of agreement from  someone called ari ari says institutions  will never sacrifice their integrity by  admitting they are failing they would  sooner let the student body suffer than  actually admit they need to change  um  you know  the concept of conservatism  is very slippery  china  went through a revolution  education didn't change  education remained  conservative  right  america  went through a revolution now i know in  new york at least  they burned the uh the university down  the main university of new den was  destroyed in the in the american  revolution  i think you could go through the  different major universities what was in  boston at that time in philadelphia they  only had a few  uh in the american in the 13 colonies i  should say at that at that time  america had a revolution thompson did  education change  now with england you have to go back  probably to the english civil war  all right  uh how about poland  how about romania  how about ukraine  how about russia  you know  what do we mean by conservative  like a lot of countries in the past 200  years or sorry however many hundred  years morning that's 500 years let's go  back  they've been through dramatic profound  political changes  but education  didn't change  all right now  one of my professors  at the university of victoria just won  he's already retired now he was on the  edge of terminal he had learned chinese  at a time when there were only paper  dictionaries  and where you had to memorize a lot of  arbitrary rules concerning word order to  find anything in a dictionary there were  no computer-based dictionaries there  were no mobile phone dictionaries  there's nothing there's nothing like  that  um  [Music]  you know you can completely you can  argue  that  the transformation  offered by information technology the  internet computers etc  in some ways more profound or more  important than  the rise and fall of communism various  revolutions that have come and gone  that's debatable  uh both are incredibly important but  it's not the same they're not important  in the same way okay  we went from an era of paper  dictionaries  to instant  mobile phone  lookup dictionaries  and it didn't change  the university system didn't change  now sorry i know i'm generalizing here  but a huge part of the world  but uh  you know and if there are a couple of  exceptions  we can make separate youtube videos  talking about them  uh frankly but i think that the  conservatism of educational institutions  i think it's really important to  recognize that that's it's more extreme  actually than religious religious  institutions i think it's fair to say  that  mainstream religious institutions they  profoundly change with every single one  of those examples i just mentioned but  educational institutions didn't  and language education is perhaps the  most conservative of all  and  you know the easiest way  to resist change  is simply to deny that there's a problem  simply to refuse to measure measure  outcomes  at what point you know do people admit  there's a problem with the education of  doctors and nurses i'm sorry to say it's  only when there are really a lot of dead  bodies piling up it's incredibly hard  it's incredibly hard to get these  institutions to make this world even  when people's lives are aligned even  when there's a body count and with  something like language education you're  never going to have  that kind of palpable outcome to force  the institution to re-examine its most  fundamentalist  okay so some interesting um  interesting comments here from goddess  nama  goddess nama says melissa you might  agree or disagree with this quote almost  all attempts at learning a language are  undertaken for vain reasons  people want to be bilingual  more than they want to actually speak  another language  quote my point being that language  instruction has fallen to what is  demanded by most students  oh  um i think that there is a really  serious oh sorry you speak  good good yeah  yes  they seem to be motivated but  and at least in part in vanity so you've  definitely spoken about this issue i  think on your channel before  yeah  well  that's not really the way i responded  it's true i've i've talked about the uh  the vanity and dishonesty of a lot of  people who are making money out of  giving advice on on language learning um  you know what do you do if you're a gym  coach if you're a trainer personal  trainer or something at a gym  what do you do if you're training people  and you have a client you have a student  who is fundamentally delusional about  what they're going to be able to  accomplish in the gym what they're going  to be able to learn or something i think  you have a serious moral responsibility  as you as an educator say no that's it's  not gonna happen that's not how it works  you know those are not the results  you are gonna get for whatever reason  you know  um i think that you have to provide the  realism and guidance  you know  i think that is an implicit part of my  critique of alexandre is that i'm saying  he has to be in that  uh in that role in that position  now  you know  at the start of this video i talked a  little bit about the life of the mind  about being an author  the vast majority of people i've met who  wanted to be an author of any kind  whether that's poetry  non-fiction fiction  the vast majority of people i met who  wanted to be authors wanted to do it for  vain reasons they wanted to do it for  the wrong reasons and they liked the  idea of themselves being famous and  possibly rich and many of them they  thought they'd be more  sexually appealing to the opposite sex  or the same sex that they did the higher  um sexual status if they were  there are a lot of people who want to  write a book or many books or what have  you want to be a creative writer  uh  for vain reasons so what's  you know what's my obligation what's my  moral obligation  in relation to that you know or for any  of us  you know i mean  why is it too much to ask you know no  do the right things  for the right reasons i mean that's  that's absolutely what it's all got to  be about and  maybe those discussions people maybe  sometimes that lead to someone  recognizing that they shouldn't be  writing this book at all  you know maybe they abandon that project  maybe they give up on the idea of being  a writer at all they realize that's  really the wrong path to them but more  likely it's going to lead to them having  a more profound engagement with and a  more profound commitment to whatever it  was they wanted to accomplish in the  first place to really re-examine what  their motivations are to start making  smarter decisions  uh in relation to it  um  you know my point being if you sat down  with a stereotypical  teenager who says they want to learn  japanese  and they want to learn japanese for the  wrong reasons  okay  even if your purpose is to talk them out  of it  think it's very likely the outcome of  that conversation is that they are going  to be more motivated to learn japanese  for the right reasons and to understand  what it is they need to be motivated to  do to understand the obstacles they're  going to overcome and the commitments  they're going to make so i was just  talking to someone i'm intentionally not  going to say what this is  in a university program  and i gave him several options and  several pieces of advice but one of them  was well what if you drop out of all the  courses other than the language course  so you put 110 times language course  because these universities pretend you  can do five courses simultaneously eight  courses simultaneously you can be  researching and writing all these essays  on different topics while doing this  huge amount of memorization wrote  practice and so on well yeah one way to  compensate for that is to is to just  do the language for that year or for  those couple of years and to try to  really really get that down now that  that may not sound deep  in contrast to many and in some ways  it's not but that's  proceeding from this recognition of the  seriousness of the task i mean as  opposed to saying oh well all you need  is 15 minutes a day  um  you know to really take that seriously  so look  maybe i'm being  recklessly optimistic here but that okay  i'm just being honest with you this is  my experience in life and this is a  positive experience  when i talk to people who want to do  vegan activism for vain reasons  and i criticize the vanity of their  reasons  at the end of the conversation they  don't want to give up being vegan they  don't want to give up being political  activists they want to do the right  thing for the right reasons now they  want to be you know  they come out of the conversation  feeling you know kind of refreshed with  a new sense of direction and clarity  like oh okay  so you know i realized before i was  really thinking about this the wrong way  so and so forth i think that if you  that that's my experience  you know  um  but of course it requires  radical honesty  and um it requires a kind of honesty  that i think you know professors are not  trained to have professors are trained  from an early age to instead be  dishonest and  precisely these ways if you sit down and  explain to someone who wants to learn  japanese just how hard it's going to be  and what their reasons should be and  what they should expect and how the next  10 years are going to go or the next  four years ago but how lonely and what  you know  i totally see how for  a large percentage of people that's  going to result in a deepening  appreciation on their part for what  language learning is as a process and as  a and as a product  now  we could repeat this even for  lifting weights at the gym but sure  maybe some people are just going to  decide that exercising the gym is not  what they want to do  at all  education so comment from rasmus who  i've seen in the audience before welcome  back erasmus education in general tends  to be very biased biased the worst is  possibly how psychiatry is considered a  science and why use an antidepressants  etc  yeah  um  okay  there is no subject on which the  students and professors are more equal  than the hard sciences  all right you can and most professors in  the sciences fear this  you can stand up in class and say to the  professor you're wrong  i have a peer-reviewed study right here  and here's the footnote here's the  source and what you said in today's  lecture is  false  physics  chemistry  neurochemistry life sciences right  students can catch professors being  wrong  in the hard sciences  so easily anyway sometimes even  accidentally you know they don't mean to  and i certainly professors have a  connection on stage all the time for  that reason because their their  authority can challenge  um language education is at the opposite  extreme it's the most authoritarian  the student and the professor are at the  most  unequal  and a student is not even capable of  detecting for example when the student  has asked a good question  and the professor is lying to the  student because they don't want to deal  with it you know and so it comes up  again it happens accidentally oh but  professor i thought that word was used  this way in this context  but professor last week you taught us  that word should always go at the start  of the sentence never at the end you  know it can be totally good nature on  the part of the student and it can be  mean-spirited in the part of the student  where the student feels they know better  than the professor and the in  professor's job  um  you know  so the authority and power the professor  holds  and the possibility of abuse  i think that language education is the  most extreme  there's no other field where it's harder  for the student to say to the professor  you don't know what you're talking about  you're teaching it wrong  you know  um  and that is exactly what we need  um that's what democracy  requires and entails  if you are going to progress from  having a fundamentally aristocratic  system of education to a fundamentally  democratic  system of education we need to have a  whole society of people at every level  who are really capable of standing up to  those in authority and saying  you're doing it wrong you're teaching it  wrong  think about the consequences 10 years  from now think about the consequences of  these young people's lives think about  the measurable outcomes or who's  actually learning to speak this language  in business who's learning to be a nurse  and who isn't right we need to reform  our institutions  from the bottom up  and a lot of the people that are at the  top  need  to be torn  down